everyday hundreds of thousands of
people pass through Hammad International Airport
different fases different names
different stories
but every single one of them has to stop at the same place
and answer the same question
officers watch scanners run
passports get checked one by one
most people pass without a second glance
but today somewhere in this crowd
two people are moving through these gates
with something to hide
and two young interns have been given one job
find them before they disappear
their supervisor keeps it simple
two photos two faces
a man black hair
gray eyes no beard
a woman brown
curly hair classes a full around their face
their passports will be clean
their stories will hold up
the computer will clear them without station
the interns are the last line
catch them or they walk
a man steps up to the desk
brown hair full beard
warm brown eyes relaxed smile
he slides his passports across
like he has absolutely nothing to worry about
the boy pulls out his photo
black hair gray eyes
no beard he looks at the man
he looks back at the photo
not even close he waves him through
the scanner agrees green light cleared
but away from the cameras and the crowds
the man slips into a quiet hallway
he peels the beard off also wig away
pops the contacts out one at a time
and there he is black hair
grey eyes no beard
the face from the poster he was never gone
he was right there the entire time
underneath a beard awake
a different eye color this cannon looked for a face
it's recognized
it forms its danger and it waved him through
this is exactly what polymorphic malware does
the dangerous code inside never changes
not a single line but every time it shows up
it wears a different disguise
different encryption different packaging
just different enough to look like something
the scanner has never seen before
later that day a woman goins the line
blonde hair, cut short, slim
the second interence checks his photo
brown curly hair and a fuller face
he looks at her he looks back at the photo
green light cleared
she walks through without a word but with a smile
someone who didn't worry
because she knew there was never anything to find
the woman in that photo no longer exist
not hiding but gone
this is not a disguise it is a transformation
a surgeon's office
a quiet conversation about bone structure
and what can be changed a gym before sunrise
month of it the body in that file gone
a salon chair long brown curls dropping to the floor
colour pulled out and replaced
session by session until the mirror showed someone
the file had never seen
she did not cover herself up
she rerolled herself from the inside out
this is what metamorphic malware does
it does not change its packaging
it rewrites its own code the actual instructions
the logic the structure every single time it runs
by the time it reaches the next scanner
that looks nothing like what came before
the scanner searches for something familiar
there's nothing familiar to find
the interns stand quietly in front of their supervisor
all suspects cleared the gate he already knows
he lets the silence sit for a moment
then he leans forward
one masked, one transformed, one changed his disguise
one changed herself both fool the scanner
polymorphic, metamorphic
when appearance cannot be trusted watch the behavior